  1. Weekly Planner
	The weekly planner aspect of our application is one of the two viewing options. In the weekly planner view, each day will be a cell containing a detailed view of the user's day, with events being blocks with size corresponding to how much time the event takes up. On the left, users will be able to toggle visibility of events by selecting or deselecting checkboxes for each type of event (bills, assignments, class schedule, etc). 

  2. Monthly Planner
	The monthly planner view of our application lets users view all of their events in a given month. In each cell in the monthly view, a box of the same color (or symbol if users elect to add one) will be visible if there is one or more events of that type on that given day. If a user selects a specific day, a detailed view of that day will appear on the right of the screen. On the left, users will be able to toggle visibility of events by selecting or deselecting checkboxes for each type of event (bills, assignments, class schedule, etc). 

  3. Class Schedule 
	The class schedule feature will have a pop up window which will take class schedule input from the user. The user will be able to add all their classes in this window, the software will then take the user’s input and input that across the planner. The window will allow the user to add each class, the start and end time, and the days which that class occurs. This makes things easy for the user as the system will update the schedule for all the days in which that class occurs. This means if a class is on Mondays, Wednesdays, and Fridays, the user will select those days in the pop up. After all the information is input into the pop up window the system can generate the recurring schedule. The purpose of this feature is to allow for a fast and easy entry of classes.

  4. Work Schedule
	The work schedule is very similar to the class schedule feature. This feature is another pop up window for the user to make inputs for what days and times they have worked in the allotted week or month planner. The window will allow the user to add the whole week or month with one simple entry. Our software is aimed for busy working people, the purpose of these schedules is to make things fast. These users need to be able to create a schedule in a timely manner. The work schedule will take the users’ inputs and fill their planner with the given work schedule. 

  5. Custom Schedule
	If a user wishes to add a recurring event to their calendar that is not a class or work schedule, they will be able to navigate a menu bar to a menu item called “add recurring event”. Pressing this button will open up a new window with a similar appearance to the windows used to add a work or class schedule. However, the user will also be able to input more than just the name, days, and times of the event. They will also be able to assign the name of the custom category they are creating, as well as assign a color to help differentiate the new category when looking at the calendar or detail view. When input is finished, the user will be able finalize the changes and add the events to the appropriate days based on the user input from the text fields.

  6. Planner Event 
	In our application, each event that is added into the planner (a bill, an assignment, a class, etc) is called a planner event. When adding an event to the planner, the user will be able to input data about each event: a name, an optional start date and time, an end date and time, and a category. From this data, the start date and times and the ends date and times will determine what cell of the planner (in weekly or monthly view) the event will be placed, and the category will determine what color/symbol the event is assigned to and will aid in the filtering aspect of the application. 
	
  7. Update Planner Event
	If a user has added an event that is canceled, or they mistakenly add a planner event, or they add a planner event to the wrong time/or day, they will be able to update that planner event by selecting the event from the daily detailed view and navigating to an update option. Within the dialog for the update option, users will be able to update any and all information regarding a given event, and the event will update on each of the calendar views when the user is finished. Also, if the user wishes to delete the event, there will be a delete option available when the day is selected.

  8. Assignment Due Date Tracking
	While editing their planner, if the user wishes to enter a due date for an assignment, they will be able to navigate to a menu item called “add due date”. Once this menu item is pressed, a window will open that will contain labels and corresponding text fields for the due date’s name, day, and time of the due date. There will also be a dropdown combo box where the user will be able to select the “assignment” category. Once the user is finished inputting the relevant information, the user will be able to press a button labeled “Add Due Date”, which will add the relevant information to the planner, and update each view so that the due date is visible.

  9. Bills Due Tracking
	Once the user creates a planner, they will have the option to add a bill due date to their planner. This feature is set up to take input from the user about an approaching bill that is due and then use that data to place this on the calendar. The application will ask the user for the due date on the bill, the amount on the bill, and a brief description. The description could be as simple as what the bill goes towards such as, water bill, CEMC, car insurance, etc. 
	The bill information will be stored and added to the calendar. If the user opted for a week planner, the bill would be added to the top of that specific day. If the user chooses to use symbols the bills symbol would be added to the top of the column for the due date. If the user chooses to use the monthly planner, when adding a bill, this will still be represented at the top of the day. The difference is the days in the month view will be much smaller than the week; therefore, the bill would be a square in color of the users’ choice or symbol. The bill tracking feature will act in a very similar way to assignment due date. 

  10. Filter view of calendar 
	On the left side of both the weekly and the monthly view, our planner application will have an option to filter by event category. This will be a dropdown menu that will include checkboxes for every event category. If a checkbox is checked, that category of event will be visible. This will allow users to see how many of a specific event they have during the week/month and will also allow for more customization of printing. 

  11. Using symbols on planner
	The planner application implements a color sorting feature where each category of event is assigned a color. If a user wishes, they can choose to add a symbol to represent each event category as well. This will show up in place of the color filled box in the month view, in front of the event name in the detailed/weekly view, and next to the category name in the filter options. 

  12. Save Planner
	If the user is not finished editing the planner, or wishes to store the planner on their local storage, they will be able to navigate to a save menu item that will open the OS-relevant file dialog box. The user will then be able to save their planner in a location of their choosing and with a name of their choosing. When finished, their planner will be saved in the proper location so that the user may open the file at a later date.

  13. Load Planner
	If the user wishes to add to or edit a planner that is already saved, there will be an “open” menu item the user can navigate to, and the menu item will open the OS-relevant file dialog box. The user will then be able to find and choose a saved planner file on their local machine, and once the file is selected, the file will be read into the application, and the user will be able to further edit the planner to their liking.

  14. Export File as .pdf 
	While our application is meant to be a digital calendar, if a user wishes to print their planner, or view their planner on a different application, they will have the option to export the planner file to a pdf.
